So we've talked about encapsulation about abstraction.
What about the third pillar of Hopi.
It's called inheritance and Inheritance allows new objects to take on the properties of existing objects.
So you can inherit classes.
Let's have a look at an example.
Let's remove the previous code that we've had and go back to our game example.
We want to create a new game and we have different types of users.
So we have users that can be wizards that can be.
Else that can be I don't know archers but all these users have some common functionality.
And each one of the sub users like wizards elves archers have some common shared functionality.
But then again different maybe attacks.
So using OPI we can actually do inheritance.
For example let's say we have a class user here and this user will have let's say a sign in function
or sign in method.
Once again it's going to receive self and then we'll just for now assume that we have some sort of a
sign in here so let's just say for now print logged in because in order to play a game they have to
be logged in.
OK.
Now you might be wondering Ho ho ho.
Where is the init method here.
Shouldn't we have that init method that gets run first.
Well we could but if we don't have any variables or attributes that we want to assign to the user.
Well in that case we wouldn't need an ID method.
So for now we'll just say that we don't need.
There's nothing that the user has other than this sign in method.
Now let's say we want to create a bunch of subclasses so that we have a Class Wizard and for now we'll
just do a pass here so that we don't have an empty class but it was still allow us to build it and then
let's say we also have a class Archer that will pass to as well and make sure we have brackets here.
Now here's the thing.
Ideally all these wizards and archers are users as well.
Right.
So we have users and these users can have multiple forms.
They can be wizards.
They can be archers they can be ogres all the characters in our game but all of them let's say have
to be signed in first.
How can we make sure that all of these users or classes also have access to sign in.
Well we can use inheritance.
And how do we do inheritance quite easily actually.
All we do is in the bracket pass the parent class that we want to inherit from.
So let's say I do user here.
Now let's collect run here no heirs everything is looking good.
And by the way you see the green line here tells me that indentation is not a multiple of four because
indentation should be for in Python.
So it can just do this.
But I like keeping it smaller just so it's easier to read okay.
So let's instantiate a class here.
I'm going to create a wizard one and then say wizard and run that wizard class.
Now if I do print here and I do let's say print wizard if I click Run I see that the wizard object has
been created.
And what if I do dot sign in.
I see that.
Yeah it's actually there.
If I do sign in and click Run hey I'm logged in.
How cool is that.
I inherited from the user class this functionality and this is really really powerful because now I
can extend my wizard.
Right.
So let's say that this wizard has an init method which will be run when the wizard is created and will
have a name and power and we get and in here will assign self name to equal name and then self dot power
to equal power and let's also add a another method calling it attack and this attack method will simply
print an F string that will say attacking with power of let's say self got power and then we're gonna
do the same for the Archer.
So I'm going to copy this code paste it in here and the Archer will have name and let's say instead
of power we'll say that it has let's say number of arrows and number of arrows will be the new attribute
that it gets and then the attack will have.
Well attacking with arrows and then we'll have arrows left and arrows left to we'll just say Number
of Errors and we can do something fun where the arrows decrease as every time you attack okay.
So now that we have this let's make this a little bit smaller just so you can see there you go.
Now that we have this let's instantiate the first wizard with let's say Merlin with the power of 50
and then the Archer
will be instantiated as Robin with let's say five hundred arrows more or less to one hundred errors.
So now the wizard and the Archer are going to have well they'll have the sign in but they'll also have
the attack but unique to their individual classes and they'll also have different properties.
Let's have a look.
If I was to do wizard dot Mr. Wizard one dot net will say
and let me just turn back my code intelligence
we'll see that we have a few errors here.
What's the what's the say undefined name self.
And that's because I forgot self in the brackets.
So you remember we always have to give the first parameter self.
If we scroll down we go to wizard dot we see that we have name power and attack if I click attack here
and I run see that I'm attacking with power of 50.
If I do Archer one dot attack
in that case I'll get attacking with arrows arrows left one hundred but both of these have the sine
in function at the same time.
How cool is that.
This is the power of inheritance we're keeping our code dry right.
We're abstracting away the part of the code that they both share.
But then changing things according to what each one needs.
So for example I could have different methods and properties on wizard than the archer but also have
a shared user's user functionality that they have.
And this way keeps her code organized and clean.
Now let's bring back the zoom in just so you can see it clear.
Now this idea of inheritance is really really powerful and the key here is that we have a parent class
and children classes.
Now sometimes these children classes are called subclasses or derived classes because they're subclasses
of user or derived from the user class.
Let's explore this topic a little bit more in the next video.